values.txt
+--

Values, expressions, and types

 Values (data) vs. variables (names with values): box diagram p. 2.2 etc

 Values are pieces of unnamed data: 42, 'Hello, world', ...

 In Python, all values are objects
  Try dir(42) - lots going on behind the curtain! (demo)

 An expression is made up of values and operators, is evaluated to produce a value
  2 + 2, etc.

 Python interpreter can be used as a calculator to evaluate expressions (demo)

 Every value belongs to a type: integer, float, str, ...  (demo)

 Integer vs. float arithmetic (demo)

 Type errors - checked at run time only (demo)
  
 Type conversions (demo)




+--

Expressions vs. statements

  2 + 2        # expression

  print 2 + 2  # statement

 Expressions have values

 Statements do not have values, but they have effects

 Statement where expression is expected is an error (demo)

 Python interpreter prints value of expression - expression doesn't print itself

 Interpreter and print statement sometimes display the values differently (demo)

 Expressions in scripts have no effect - must use print statement to show value


 (In Python 3, print is an expression, not a statement!  They broke Hello, world!) 




+--

Variables and assignment

 Values (data) vs. variables (names with values): box diagram sects 2.2, 7.1, etc.

 A variable is a name that refers to a value

 Assignment associates a value with a variable (the name)

 =, ==, is, id 

 Assignment creates a variable as needed (no declarations)  (demo)
  Pitfall -  if you misspell on left-hand side, you get a new variable

 Assignments are statements (not expressions), right-hand side is expression

 A variable is a kind of expression -- it evaluates to its value
  so a variable can appear in an expression, can appear on rhs of assignment

 Python is dynamically typed (unlike statically typed C, C++, Java, ...)
  Values have types, but variables do not
  Can assign values with different types to the same variable
  Tradeoff: dynamically typed programs are shorter BUT compiler does less checking 





